Software Development Lifecycles

P1 - Describe two iterative and two sequential software lifecycle models

Iterative Models -

Evolutionary Prototyping -
This model starts off with an identification of as many basic requirements as possible. From this, an initial prototype is created. Several prototypes are created as the project goes on, each adding or refining to the prototype as more requirements come up. Next, the prototype is marketed to the participants of the target market. Once research comes back, the prototype is changed and improved from here onwards.

Spiral Model -
This model is risk driven with 4 stages; planning, risk analysis, development and testing, and then evaluation. The project will go through these 4 steps in an iterative way. First they gather the requirements, and then from finding out the risks, they also find out the solution to them to create a prototype. The last stage is evaluating the prototype and project, and then planning for the next version of it all.

Sequential Models -

Waterfall Model -
A waterfall model project goes through a linear sequential model, which has to go through each step without going back on itself. Each step acts as an input or start of the next step. It starts off with identifying the basic requirements, which is used to prepare the system and design. The next part is using these designs to start creating small parts, which is then tested. The software needs to go through constant software testing to find out if there are any flaw or errors, as once it’s tested it goes through the implementation of the entire product. The last part is maintenance, which is small tweaks and bug fixes to help once the software has been installed

Rapid Application Development -
This model creates systems much faster than other models. It has 4 stages; planning requirements, user design, rapid construction, and transition. The initial stage starts with the designer and users coming up with a bare bones agreement on the requirements. The user feedback is gathered with heavy emphasis on determining the system architecture, which allows initial prototypes to be created. Rapid construction is done once the user and system design has begun. The final stage allows the development team to test some components in a live production environment, which gives feedback on what they can do from there onwards.

P2 - Explain how risk is managed in the Spiral Lifecycle model
Developing software comes with a lot of uncertainty, which comes implies risk. Risk can be managed by quantifying it: Risk exposure = Probability (of negative outcome) x Loss (as a result of this outcome). This can be used to select alternative paths, usually the one with the expected loss to be smallest.
Within risk management, risks need to be both assessed and controlled. When it is assessed, there are three parts to it; identification of the risks involved, analysis of each risk, and then prioritization of which risk has the most expected loss etc.
The next part of risk management is control which also has three parts to it; planning of each risk, then resolving each one, and then monitoring to see if any risks arise unexpectedly.
